## Create Variation

**post** `/images/variations`

Creates a variation of a given image. This endpoint only supports `dall-e-2`.

### Returns

- `ImagesResponse = object { created, background, data, 4 more }`

  The response from the image generation endpoint.

  - `created: number`

    The Unix timestamp (in seconds) of when the image was created.

  - `background: optional "transparent" or "opaque"`

    The background parameter used for the image generation. Either `transparent` or `opaque`.

    - `"transparent"`

    - `"opaque"`

  - `data: optional array of Image`

    The list of generated images.

    - `b64_json: optional string`

      The base64-encoded JSON of the generated image. Returned by default for the GPT image models, and only present if `response_format` is set to `b64_json` for `dall-e-2` and `dall-e-3`.

    - `revised_prompt: optional string`

      For `dall-e-3` only, the revised prompt that was used to generate the image.

    - `url: optional string`

      When using `dall-e-2` or `dall-e-3`, the URL of the generated image if `response_format` is set to `url` (default value). Unsupported for the GPT image models.

  - `output_format: optional "png" or "webp" or "jpeg"`

    The output format of the image generation. Either `png`, `webp`, or `jpeg`.

    - `"png"`

    - `"webp"`

    - `"jpeg"`

  - `quality: optional "low" or "medium" or "high"`

    The quality of the image generated. Either `low`, `medium`, or `high`.

    - `"low"`

    - `"medium"`

    - `"high"`

  - `size: optional "1024x1024" or "1024x1536" or "1536x1024"`

    The size of the image generated. Either `1024x1024`, `1024x1536`, or `1536x1024`.

    - `"1024x1024"`

    - `"1024x1536"`

    - `"1536x1024"`

  - `usage: optional object { input_tokens, input_tokens_details, output_tokens, 2 more }`

    For `gpt-image-1` only, the token usage information for the image generation.

    - `input_tokens: number`

      The number of tokens (images and text) in the input prompt.

    - `input_tokens_details: object { image_tokens, text_tokens }`

      The input tokens detailed information for the image generation.

      - `image_tokens: number`

        The number of image tokens in the input prompt.

      - `text_tokens: number`

        The number of text tokens in the input prompt.

    - `output_tokens: number`

      The number of output tokens generated by the model.

    - `total_tokens: number`

      The total number of tokens (images and text) used for the image generation.

    - `output_tokens_details: optional object { image_tokens, text_tokens }`

      The output token details for the image generation.

      - `image_tokens: number`

        The number of image output tokens generated by the model.

      - `text_tokens: number`

        The number of text output tokens generated by the model.

### Example

```http
curl https://api.openai.com/v1/images/variations \
    -H 'Content-Type: multipart/form-data' \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer $OPENAI_API_KEY" \
    -F 'image=@/path/to/image' \
    -F n=1 \
    -F response_format=url \
    -F size=1024x1024 \
    -F user=user-1234
```
